# 1. Best Friends

- Morse code consists of two symbols. This allows you to replace conversation.
- The key word here is two. Two types of blinks, two vowel sounds, two different anything, really, can with suitable combinations convey all types of information.

# 2. Codes and Combinations

- Morse code is said to be binary (literally meaning two by two) because the components of the code consist of only two things—a dot and a dash.
- Combinations of binary objects (such as coins) and binary codes (such as Morse code) are always described by powers of two. Two is a very important number in this book.

# 3. Braille and Binary Codes

- we’ve seen how six binary elements (the dots) yield 64 possible codes and no more. It just so happens that many of these 64 codes perform double duty depending on their context.

# 4. Anatomy of a Flashlight

- Like the binary codes invented by Morse and Braille, this simple flashlight is either on or off. There’s no in-between. This similarity between binary codes and simple electrical circuits is going to prove very useful in the chapters ahead.

# 5. Communicating Around Corners

- The solution to this problem—not for flashlights but for the clicking and clacking telegraphs of yesteryear—turns out to be a simple and humble device, but one from which entire computers can be built.

# 6. Logic with Switches

- An important part of the telegraph system was a simple device that could perform operations of logic with much more agility than mere switches could.

# 7. Telegraphs and Relays

- The relay is a remarkable device. It’s a switch, surely, but a switch that’s turned on and off not by human hands but by an electrical current. You could do amazing things with such devices. You could actually assemble much of a computer with them.

# 8. Relays and Gates

- 원격으로 스위치를 여닫게 할 수 있게 됨으로써 레지스터와 같은 소자를 개발 할 수 있고 이를 통해 논리 회로를 구성할 수 있다.
