# 5. Metrics Monitoring and Alerting System

- Five component of the system
  1. Data collection
  2. Data transmission
  3. Data Storage
  4. Alerting
  5. Visualization
- The system is under constant heavy write load, while the read load is bursty.
- Using time-series DB is good choose. Because of Visualization, Optimization and so on…
  - OpenTSDB
  - MetricsDB
  - Amazon Timestream
  - InfluxDB (Popular)
  - Prometheus (Popular)
- Pull vs push models. There is no clear answer.
- For Service Discovery, Using etcd, or Zookeeper is good option. Because It is reliablity, scalable, and maintainable solution.
- *Q. How collector take the charge of accessibility through VPN, or firewall?*
- By using Consistent hashing, It could distribute traffic of collector.
- It can easily prevent data loss when the DB is unavailable, by retaining the data in Kafka.
- Time-series DB query language make it is to query monitoring service.
- For memory saving
  - Data encoding and compression
    - ex) 16100092(start time), 10(time gap), 10, 11……
  - Downsampling
    - Retention: 7 days, no sampling
    - Retention 30 days, downsample to 1m resolution
    - Retention 1 year, downsample to 1 hr resolution

# 6. Ad Click Event Aggregation

- Digital advertising has a core process called Real-Time Bidding (RTB)

- The speed of the RTB process is important as it usually occurs in less than a second

- API 1: Aggregate the number of click of ad_id in the last M minutes

  - ```
    GET /v1/ads/{:ad_id}/aggregated_count
    ```

    - Req

      | Field  | Type |
      | ------ | ---- |
      | from   | long |
      | to     | long |
      | filter | long |

    - Res

      | Field | Type   |
      | ----- | ------ |
      | ad_id | string |
      | count | long   |

- API 2: Return top N most click ad_ids in the last M minutes

  - ```
    GET /v1/ads/popular_ads
    ```

    - Req

      | Field  | Type |
      | ------ | ---- |
      | count  | int  |
      | window | int  |
      | filter | long |

    - Res

      | Field  | Type          |
      | ------ | ------------- |
      | ad_ids | array<string> |

- The columnar data formats example

  - ORC
  - Parquet
  - AVRO

- watermark is regarded as an extension of an aggregation window for covering missing events.

- According to the “Designing data-intensive applications”, there are four types of window functions

  - tumbling window (aka fixed window)
  - hopping window
  - sliding window
  - session window

- Data deduplication common factor

  - Client-side
    - Duplicated events sent with malicious intent are best handled by ad fraud/risk control components
  - Server outage

- To achieve exactly once processing, we need to put operations between steps in one distributed transaction.

- Data can evenly distributed by using Virtual nodes in Cassandra DB